WRITE(1)                  BSD General Commands Manual                 WRITE(1)

NNAAMMEE
     wwrriittee -- send a message to another user

SSYYNNOOPPSSIISS
     wwrriittee _u_s_e_r [_t_t_y]

DDEESSCCRRIIPPTTIIOONN
     The wwrriittee utility allows you to communicate with other users, by copying
     lines from your terminal to theirs.

     When you run the wwrriittee command, the user you are writing to gets a mes-
     sage of the form:

           Message from yourname@yourhost on yourtty at hh:mm ...

     Any further lines you enter will be copied to the specified user's termi-
     nal.  If the other user wants to reply, they must run wwrriittee as well.

     When you are done, type an end-of-file or interrupt character.  The other
     user will see the message 'EOF' indicating that the conversation is over.

     You can prevent people (other than the super-user) from writing to you
     with the mesg(1) command.

     If the user you want to write to is logged in on more than one terminal,
     you can specify which terminal to write to by specifying the terminal
     name as the second operand to the wwrriittee command.  Alternatively, you can
     let wwrriittee select one of the terminals - it will pick the one with the
     shortest idle time.  This is so that if the user is logged in at work and
     also dialed up from home, the message will go to the right place.

     The traditional protocol for writing to someone is that the string '-o',
     either at the end of a line or on a line by itself, means that it is the
     other person's turn to talk.  The string 'oo' means that the person
     believes the conversation to be over.

SSEEEE AALLSSOO
     mesg(1), talk(1), wall(1), who(1)

HHIISSTTOORRYY
     A wwrriittee command appeared in Version 1 AT&T UNIX.

BBUUGGSS
     The sender's LC_CTYPE setting is used to determine which characters are
     safe to write to a terminal, not the receiver's (which wwrriittee has no way
     of knowing).

     The wwrriittee utility does not recognize multibyte characters.

BSD                              July 17, 2004                             BSD
